Hi everybody and welcome back.
I hope this letter finds you well and that your programming is coming along nicely.
Don't forget if you want to become an expert programmer you need to do it every single day.
With that said let's move on and we're entering into a new section and that section is called tuples.
But before we get going let me ask you a question.
Do you know what mutable means.
Neither do I.
Do you know what immutable means.
When I started programming I didn't know what either of those terms meant.
Well mutable means liable to change.
So you could say that the weather is mutable and immutable means an object or value which cannot change.
So far we have been working with list that we can change.
However sometimes you will want to create a list of items that cannot change in Python.
These lists are called tuples So an immutable list has values that cannot change.
And again these lists are called tuples.
A tuple is created by using rounded brackets instead of square brackets.
So let's have a look at how would look.
You could have a couple of dates which would never change such as birthdates equals rounded brackets
1 5 4 sorry 7 6 and off I went today.
I'm still asleep.
11.
Once you have created a tuple you can access individual elements by using each item index just like
in a list.
So let's have a look at how we do it as well.
As always we use our print statement print dates square brackets 0 to access the first index and there
we go one that's tried again.
Print dates and let's try to toward which we position to 6.
There we go.
Perfect.
Now if you try and change the value of an item inside a tuple you'll get an error.
The only way to modify a tuple is by overwriting it.
So let's take a look at that.
So let's get rid of this here and let's put in a new tuple coordinates and y coordinates.
Well if you think about the coordinates of a position or a place in the world is very very unlikely
to change.
So let's start off at coordinates and let's just put in.
Let's imagine these are longitude and latitude and let's put in one hundred.
One thousand and one and five thousand and two.
Okay perfect.
Now let's print out our original coordinates.
Original coordinates C or D and a t s.
Sometimes my spelling is not the best original coordinates.
OK let's print them out.
Prints.
Oh sorry we need to give this a 4 block for coordinate
in the coordinates.
Don't forget your colon which is one of my major flaws.
I always forget that print coordinate.
There we go and let's see what that gives us gives us our original coordinates and two coordinates 1001
five times into perfect.
So let's come out of here for a loop here and let's do this again.
So let's print outs so let's enter a new coordinates
coordinates equal of 2002
and 7000 and tree perfect.
Ok so print what we want to do is we want to give this a new line as well just to give us a little bit
of space when we're trying to read.
Making a reading level and making reading a little bit clearer and new coordinates
OK and let's put in a note a for loop for coordinates in coordinates.
Now if any of this is unfamiliar to you.
Go back to lecture in the last section on for loops coordinates.
Don't forget the semi-colon print
coordinate and let's see what that gives us.
There we go.
So like I said the only way to modify a tuple is by overwriting it.
So first you give it the original coordinates and then you overwrite those coordinates with new ones.
And as we've just seen just like in the list you can loop true values in a tuple.
Use tuples when you want to store a set of values that should not be changed during the lifetime of
your program.
So that could be initial start of values.
For example if you were writing a piece of software that was related to a speedometer of a car or some
sort of moving vehicle the original co-ordinate or the original value of that would be zero.
And that will never change over its lifetime you will create a new value which will be one two three
four miles per hour or whatever it might be distance traveled.
But the original starting position would always be zero.
So I hope that was helpful.
And if any questions please do not hesitate to ask me and I'll see you in the next lecture.
Thank you.